_pages/about.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: About Me
date: 2023-12-30 01:38:00 +1100
permalink: /about/
summary: About Marcus Helvig
---

I'm a geek going way back. I've also recieved late-life diagnoses of Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) and Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). I love photography, astronomy, astrophotography, Lego, and our many many pets.

## Computing

Computers are one of my biggest passions. I was jsut 10 year old when I wrote my first program with my dad. It was a simple program that told you how much older or younger you were than me. I come from the age where I had to hand optimise `autoexec.bat` and `config.sys` within an inch of its life to make sure I had enough memory in DOS to play games. This started a fascination with the lower levels of computing. 

At university, I was introduced to Unix, and Linux, resulting in me setting up Slackware as the only operating system on _Berserk_, my trusty 486 pc. The system lasted for years, was hand-configured, and all components were manually upgraded from source. I'm fairly sure I custom configured a Linux kernel, once again minimising it and optimising it as much as possible. Berserk was also home to FlexiBBS, a telnet based text bulletin board.

Eventually I discovered OpenBSD, drawn by its minimalism, and security focus. Of course, Berserk became an OpenBSD system for several years. When it finally came time to replace Berserk, and given OpenBSD's ability to run o a wide variety of hardware, I decided to ditch the PC's architecture, and switch to a _PowerMac G4 (AGP Graphics)_, with the intention of running OpenBSD on it.

Booting Mac OS 9 on the new computer was a pleasant surprise. This was a system that literally just worked. Mac OS X had just been announced, and the public beta was installed as soon as it was available - a Unix operating system with a GUI that was designed by a company well known for creating simple and consistent UIs? I was hooked.

At university, I crashed a networking lecture being taught by [Dr Jim Breen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jim_Breen). The lecture was about the IP protocol, including how subnetting worked, the packet format, and a little bit of TCP. Without any prior networking experience I absorbed everything being taught, and my fascination with Networking was born.

Nowadays, I use macOS, iOS/iPadOS, Windows, I have a small PC running Linux, and I've started using Android.

## Neurodiversity

In late 2020 I was diagnosed with Autism and ADHD. (More to come)

Commit message:

Update the about, now and using pages.

_pages/about.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: About Me
date: 2023-12-30 01:38:00 +1100
permalink: /about/
summary: About Marcus
---

I'm a geek going way back. I've also recieved late-life diagnoses of Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) and Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). I love photography, astronomy, astrophotography, Lego, and our many many pets.

## Neurodiversity

In late 2020 I was diagnosed with Autism and ADHD. The last three years have been a journey of self-discovery.  It's become clear to me recently how important, and affirming, it is to hear other's neurodiverse experiences. These pages will allow me to share my thoughts and experiences in the hope that others may see how I see the world, and hopefully gain some understand of themselves or others.
## Computing

Computers are one of my biggest passions. I was jsut 10 year old when I wrote my first program with my dad. It was a simple program that told you how much older or younger you were than me. I come from the age where I had to hand optimise `autoexec.bat` and `config.sys` within an inch of its life to make sure I had enough memory in DOS to play games. This started a fascination with the lower levels of computing. 

At university, I was introduced to Unix, and Linux, resulting in me setting up Slackware as the only operating system on _Berserk_, my trusty 486 pc. The system lasted for years, was hand-configured, and all components were manually upgraded from source. I'm fairly sure I custom configured a Linux kernel, once again minimising it and optimising it as much as possible. Berserk was also home to FlexiBBS, a telnet based text bulletin board.

Eventually I discovered OpenBSD, drawn by its minimalism, and security focus. Of course, Berserk became an OpenBSD system for several years. When it finally came time to replace Berserk, and given OpenBSD's ability to run o a wide variety of hardware, I decided to ditch the PC's architecture, and switch to a _PowerMac G4 (AGP Graphics)_, with the intention of running OpenBSD on it.

Booting Mac OS 9 on the new computer was a pleasant surprise. This was a system that literally just worked. Mac OS X had just been announced, and the public beta was installed as soon as it was available - a Unix operating system with a GUI that was designed by a company well known for creating simple and consistent UIs? I was hooked.

At university, I crashed a networking lecture being taught by [Dr Jim Breen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jim_Breen). The lecture was about the IP protocol, including how subnetting worked, the packet format, and a little bit of TCP. Without any prior networking experience I absorbed everything being taught, and my fascination with Networking was born.

Nowadays, I use macOS, iOS/iPadOS, Windows, I have a small PC running Linux, and I've started using Android.
