---
layout: post
title: Infinite Diversity in Infinite Combinations
date: 2024-01-17 22:05:54 +11:00
category: autism
tags: 
- star trek
- visibility
- neurodiversity
---
I love Star Trek (don't worry, Star Wars fans, I follow both major religions), and have for as long as I can remember. I grew up on Star Trek: The Next Generation, which explains why Star Trek Nemesis hurt that much more than Star Trek V: The Final Frontier. Hmm I seem to have already gone off on a tangent, perhaps I shouldn't write these at night once my ADHD meds have worn off. Even if you're not a fan of Star Trek, hopefully you can look past the Star Trek stuff, and see this as a post about neurodiversity and representation. 

You'll need to excuse  a little bit more Star Trek stuff, before I get to my main points, because it will provide important context for the discussion. It's either that, or nest time I can provide you with a list of Star Trek episodes to watch to gain the background, let me know which you prefer.

The Borg are a major reoccurring enemy in the Star Trek universe. They are a species where all members are linked into a hive mind. As part of the hive mind, none of the members of the Borg have any individuality, and they all operate as one entity. The Borg kidnap members of other species, and assimilate them into their collective, stripping away their individuality, while takign their knowledge and adding it to their own.

In Voyager season 4, the character of Seven of Nine was introduced. The Borg had assimilated a 6 year-old girl, who had her individuality taken from her, and became a member of their collective. Twenty three years later, she was removed from the Borg collective by the Voyager crew. She had grown up as a member of a hive mind, and no memory or instinct of individuality. She had little to no memory of her childhood before being part of the Borg, including her own name, instead wanting to be referred to by her Borg designation of Seven of Nine, Seven for short. 

 Seven's initial story arc is about her struggles of no longer being just a member of the collective, and her attempts to rejoin the Borg. She felt alone and isolated, unable to cope with being an individual. Eventually, she accepted being an individual, and integrated with the crew. 
 
Seven had frequent clashes with her crew members – she was frustrated with rules that didn't make sense; her interactions with others were direct, without the inefficiencies of small talk, or other social norms; her inability to recognise the emotional needs of others. These traits are awfully familiar to those of us with autism. While Seven was never cruel or malicious, her actions were interpreted that way by her crew at one time or another.

A part of my behaviour that frustrates others is me wanting to know the reasons behind something. If I'm told not to touch something, is it because it's fragile, and I might break it? Is it because it's positioned perfectly, but won't be damaged by being handled? Is it because it's owned by someone else who isn't present, and they don't want to risk damage? Is it dangerous for me to touch or be near? Each of these scenarios places different parameters around my interactions with the object. "Don't touch" can mean "do not touch", but it can also mean "do not move", or "don't damage it". The context of why helps us know which meaning of "don't touch" applies, and ensures that we are more careful in those scenarios. It also means that we are not pointlessly restricted by other interpretations of the rule. I struggle with being given overly broad restrictions, without a justification for them - it's inefficient. To me, this feels like it has the same origins as Seven's ignoring rules that don't make sense or are inefficient. If she had the context of why these rules are in place, would that change her thinking in deciding if a rule is valid or useless?

Early on, Seven made her fellow crew members uncomfortable. She was able to identify solutions to problems faster than others, or was able to spot inefficiencies in how they work, or a solution that they have come up with. In those occasions, Seven's first instinct is to be helpful, by telling them what is wrong or inefficient about their solution, or how they are working. It was not out of malice, but wanting to improve their work or the solution. But when she did that, it was without the expected norms of adding fluff around what she wanted to say - she just said what had to be said. Her crew members interpreted it as arrogance, and rudeness, despite that not being her intention at all. One of the reasons social interactions can be frustrating to autistics is struggling to deal with the irrelevant fluff around day-to-day communications. It doesn't come naturally to us, and if we don't do it, we're seen as rude, or abrupt, and if we do it, it can feel draining or leave a poor impression on others as we do a poor job of small talk.

Seven struggled to understand the needs of others - she couldn't recognise when they were exhausted, and didn't understand the emotional needs of others. At one stage, she was responsible for educating and looking after some children, a task which she felt uncomfortable with from the beginning. Her inability to understand their needs led her to create a strict schedule for the children, where there was a block of time scheduled for "fun". She didn't understand that fun wasn't something to be scheduled, but rather something that happens throughout the day. As an autistic, it can be hard to understand someone else's needs, unless we are explicitly told them. Our understanding of how the minds of neurotypicals work are as much of a mystery to us, as how our minds work is to neurotypicals.

I had initially planned to write about other characters that struggled to fit in, and tried to become more "human" and those that didn't seek to fit in, and accepted that they were different, and those in-between. Characters such as Deep Space 9's Odo, or The Next Generation's Data, or to an extent Worf, or Voyager's Tuvok and the Emergency Medical Hologram, or even Spock, but I think I had more to write about Seven than I expected. I expect I'll bore you with more Trek related posts in the future.

But I want to finish on the note of representation being important. Seeing characters that struggle with the things we do helps us feel less lost and alone. Recent experiences have put me in situations where I was in a group with other neurodiverse people, or one on one discussions with other neurodiverse friends, and an important part of that was the ability to share similar experiences and realise that while everyone's neurodiversity is different, there are common experiences, and common things that we struggle with, and that leaves us feeling less alone.